pass on user guide before release (#257)
tweag/linear-base: docs/USER_GUIDE.md

# User Guide

This guide provides a minimal list of things you need to use `linear-base`, assuming
familiarity with linear types (see the [`README`] for resources about linear types
if unfamiliar). Namely, this guide provides:

  1. How to navigate the library
  2. Core concepts you need to know

>   3. Current limitations

Reviewer: Add links to the relevant sections.

## Navigating the library

 * The [`Prelude.Linear`] module is a good place to start. It is a prelude for

>  haskell programs that use `-XLinearTypes` and is meant to replace the original

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Haskell programs that use `-XLinearTypes` and is meant to replace the original
```

 prelude from `base`.
 * Mutable data with a pure API.
   Consider looking at `Data.{Array, Hashmap, Vector, Set}.Mutable.Linear`.
 * Resource-safe I/O is in `System.IO.Linear`.
 * A resource-safe version of `streaming` is in `Streaming.Linear` and
   `Streaming.Prelude.Linear`.

> There are many other modules of course but a lot of the ones not already listed
> are very experimental, such as system-heap memory management in `Foreign.Marshall.Pure`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many other modules of course but a lot of the ones not already listed
are still experimental, such as system-heap memory management in `Foreign.Marshall.Pure`.
```

naming scheme with top-level names like `Control`, `Data`, `System`
and so on.

## Core concepts

### Interfacing linear and non-linear code

Throughout linear code, you will need to interface between non-linear
and linear code. The key tools you need to do this are in
[`Data.Unrestricted`] and are typically re-exported by
[`Prelude.Linear`].

This is basically done through the data definition `Ur` and type classes.
The data type `Ur` is the identity with an unrestricted/normal arrow on the
constructor. It basically allows us to ensure that we can use the `a` inside
an `Ur a` in an unrestricted way.

> The type classes `Consumable, Dupable, Moveable` allow non-linear uses of

Reviewer: To be fair, only `Ur` and `Moveable` are really the interface between linear and non-linear code.

Author: Those are for unrestricted code and unrestricted is not equivalent to non-linear. Code that is use at-most-once or at-least-once is still _not_ linear, or, non-linear.

Author: Hmm, yes. They are linear ways to do non-linear things. I'll re-name the section and phrasing.

values bound to be used linearly in the body of a linear function. So,
for instance, an `A` in the body of `f :: Consumable A => A %1-> B`
can be used in a non-linear way.

### Importing linear and non-linear code

Most modules with `{-# LANGUAGE LinearHaskell #-}` will want to have a mix of
linear and non-linear code and hence, import linear modules like
`Data.Functor.Linear` and unrestricted modules from `base` like `Data.List`.
The pattern we've followed internally is to import the non-linear module

> qualified. For instance:

Reviewer: We really import most things qualified. But, indeed, when we want to import two similar modules unqualified, we do prefer to import the linear one unqualified, and the non-linearity-aware one qualified.

```haskell
import Prelude.Linear
import Data.Functor.Linear
import qualified Prelude as NonLinear
import Data.List as List
```

Sometimes it's easier to use `forget :: (a %1-> b) -> (a -> b)` from

> `Prelude.Linear` than to import the non-linear version of some function.

Reviewer: `forget f` is just `\x. f x`. So often, you don't even need to use `forget`.

### `f :: X -> (SomeType %1-> Ur b) %1-> Ur b` functions

This function is used throughout `linear-base`, particularly
with mutable data structures.

It serves to limit the **scope** of using `SomeType` by taking
a function of type `(SomeType %1-> Ur b)`
as its second argument and using it with a value of type `SomeType` to
produce an `Ur b`. We call this function of type `(SomeType %1-> Ur b)`,
a **scope function** or just **scope** for short.

The `SomeType` cannot escape the scope function by being inside the type `b`
in some way. This is because the `SomeType` is bound linearly in the scope

> function and `Ur` holds its value with a non-linear constructor arrow. At any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function and `Ur` can only contain unrestricted (in particular not linear) values. At any
```

naming scheme with top-level names like `Control`, `Data`, `System`
and so on.

> ## (2) Major design decisions that set standards

Author: I'll rename it to "core concepts"

If you aren't familiar with these design decisions, large parts of `linear-base`
might be confusing or you might write code that goes against the grain of

> how everything is set up.

Author: Will cut.

### Interfacing linear and non-linear code

Throughout linear code, you will need to interface between non-linear
and linear code. All the tools you need to do this are in
[`Data.Unrestricted`] and are typically re-exported by
[`Prelude.Linear`].

This is basically done through type classes. Types that can be used in
a non-linear way even when they are bound in a linear function have
instances of one or more of these things: `Consumable, Dupable,
Moveable`.

### `f :: X -> (SomeType #-> Ur b) #-> Ur b` functions

This function limits the **scope** of using `SomeType` by taking
a scope function of type `(SomeType #-> Ur b)`
as its second argument and using it with a value of type `SomeType` to

> produce an `Ur b`.

Author: Yup, made this change throughout the document.

The `SomeType` cannot escape by having it be inside the type `b` 
in some way. This is because the `SomeType` is bound linearly in the scope
function and `Ur` holds its value with a non-linear constructor
arrow.

Now, if `f` is the only function that can make a `SomeType`,
then we have an API that completely controls the creation-to-deletion

> lifetime (i.e, the scope) of `SomeType` and ensures it is used linearly.

Reviewer: I like to call the function argument the _scope_ probably this piece of terminology should be explained here, so that we can refer to scopes in the documentation.

Author: Agreed :+1:

> ## (3) Temporary limitations

Reviewer: “(3)”?
